# One-time Pad (or Vernam cipher) encoder in Java
A One Time Pad (OTP) is the only potentially unbreakable encryption method. Plain text encrypted using an OTP cannot be retrieved without the encrypting key. However, there are several key conditions that must be met by the user of a one time pad cipher, or the cipher can be compromised.

* The key must be random and generated by a non-deterministic, non-repeatable process. Any key generated by an algorithm will not work. The security of the OTP relies on the randomness of the key. Unfortunately, the randomness of a key cannot be proved.
* The key must never be reused. Use of the same key to encrypt different messages, no matter how trivially small, compromises the cipher.
* The key must not fall in the hands of the enemy. This may seem obvious, but it points to the weakness of system in that you must be able to transmit large amounts of data to the reader of the pad. Typically, one time pad cipher keys are sent via diplomatic pouch.

A typical one time pad system works like this: Generate a long fresh new random key. XOR the plaintext with the key to create the ciphertext. To decrypt the ciphertext, XOR it with the original key. The system as presented is thus a symmetric and reciprocal cipher. Other functions (e.g., addition modulo n) could be used to combine the key and the plaintext to yield the ciphertext, although the resulting system may not be a reciprocal cipher.

If the key is random and never re-used, an OTP is probably unbreakable. Any ciphertext can be decrypted to any message of the same length by using the appropriate key. Thus, the actual original message cannot be determined from ciphertext alone, as all possible plaintexts are equally likely. This is the only cryptosystem for which such a proof is known.